---
title: CSC108
icon: /icons/csc108.svg
desc: Introduction to Computer Programming
link: csc108
tags:
  - utm-cs
keywords:
  - python
---

# CSC108: Introduction to Computer Programming

#### Prerequisite: None

<grid-1-x-2 title="Fall 2020 Class Website" img-src="https://i.imgur.com/mthOVtT.png" link="https://mcs.utm.utoronto.ca/~108/index.shtml" desc="All credits to Michael Liut" button="Check it out!"></grid-1-x-2>

<ExamText class-code="CSC108"></ExamText>

### What is CSC108?

CSC108 is an introductory computer programming course and is open to all
students, whether or not they have any previous experiences in computer
programming. This course will teach the basics of programming, such as writing
and analyzing algorithms, as well as tracing programs.

After this course, students will gain the ability to create simple programs to
their liking, such a calculator!

### Overview

Written by: Jarrod Servilla

CSC108 is your first CS course where you’ll be using Python. It assumes no prior
programming experience, and in it you learn about the basics of coding:
functions, strings, conditionals, loops, lists, file parsing, an intro to object
oriented programming, and more. For those without coding experience, it can be a
lot since it’s following university pace.

While the assessments may change for each offering, normally you’ll have three
assignments, weekly labs, weekly PCRS, one or two term tests, and then the final
exam.

Code assessments are marked on correctness and style. For correctness, they run
your code against a testing suite. For style, your code will be run against a
style checker that measures things like appropriate whitespacing, variable
names, etc. Assignments: Each assignment has a concept (e.g. Twitter, Bike
Station Rentals, etc) tailored to course content, and you’ll be required to
write functions that achieve certain goals. The functions get progressively more
difficult, with the first few being very simple to larger functions that may
require 40+ lines of code.

Labs: For the fall semester, we provided an overview (30 mins or so) on the lab
and relevant content, and then the rest of the time was for you to attempt the
lab and ask us questions. Use your TAs as a resource! If you’re stuck on
anything or have any questions, definitely reach out and get assistance.

PCRS: PCRS is an online system where you watch lessons and practice the content:
by answering true/false or multiple choice questions or by submitting code and
having it run against test cases. Content is done in three stages throughout the
week: Prepare, Practice, Perform-so just make sure you stay on top of the work
and you’ll be great.

Doing Well: Practice, practice, practice! If you ever think “huh I wonder what
happens in Python when I…” just try it out and learn right then and there! The
term tests can be a bit tricky as there are some questions that focus on certain
interactions exclusive to Python, so knowing how Python works for certain cases
can go a long way.

### Topics in CSC108:

- Python Arithmetics
- Variables, Expressions and Statements
- Elementary Data Types (Int, Bool, etc)
- In Depth study on Strings
- Conditional Statements
- Functions and Classes
- Data structures (Lists, Dictionaries, Tuples)
- File Input and Output
- Unit Testing
- Sorting Algorithms
- Time Complexity of Algorithms
- Introduction to Object Orientated Programming

### Resources:

<grid-1-x-2 title="Beginner Tutorial to Python" :reversed="true" img-src="https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/content/images/2020/07/how-is-python-used-v2.png" link="https://developers.google.com/edu/python" desc="Get a head start on Python with Google for Education!" button="Check it out!"></grid-1-x-2>

<grid-1-x-2 title="Practice makes perfect!" img-src="https://ictslab.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/03/d1326ca6cca8038cd115a061b4e2b3bc.png" link="https://developers.google.com/edu/python" desc="Multiple beginner exercises to improve your coding skills" button="Try it out!"></grid-1-x-2>

### What courses are avaliable after CSC108:

<Accordion :data="['CSC148']"></Accordion>
