---
title: Web Development
icon: /icons/web.svg
desc:
  Build sites and apps for the world's open and universal computing platform!
link: web
tags:
  - web
---

# Web Development

Web development is when you create pages, sites or applications people can
access over the internet. As a web developer, you have the option of a broad set
of rapidly evolving tools to work with.

## Web Fundamentals

### What is the World Wide Web?

<VideoContainer vid-src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/guvsH5OFizE"></VideoContainer>

### What are Web Pages, Websites and Web applications?

<VideoContainer vid-src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ylbQrYhfa18"></VideoContainer>

### What are Web Pages made of?

The content of a webpage is rendered using HTML. HTML is a markup language which
means its purpose is to render information in the format you specified using
HTML syntax.

These pages can be enhanced to look more user-friendly by adding color, frames
and other aesthetic features using something called Cascading Style Sheets
(CSS).

If you want give your page some functionality when users interact with it (such
as by changing content on the click of a button), you generally use a
programming language called Javascript that runs in the browser.

### Web Demystified

<grid-1-x-2 :reversed="true" desc="A video series created by Mozilla Hacks that introduces the fundamentals of web development by focusing on HTML, CSS & Javascript." link="https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLo3w8EB99pqLEopnunz-dOOBJ8t-Wgt2g" button="Check it out!" img-Src="https://www.animatedvideo.com/blog/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/Video_Production_Agency-770x360.png"></grid-1-x-2>

## Frontend Development

Frontend Development is the process of implementing user interfaces for web
applications. As a frontend developer, you create the portion of the website
that people interact with and ensure that the design requirements for how your
application should 'look' and 'feel' are met.

### Frontend Masters

<grid-1-x-2 desc="Learn more about what you need to become a successful frontend web developer!" link="https://frontendmasters.com/books/front-end-handbook/2018/what-is-a-FD.html" button="Check it out!" img-Src="https://static.packt-cdn.com/products/9781838648121/graphics/assets/9a5e3a54-0f0e-42a2-ab09-3ab748173cfe.png"></grid-1-x-2>

## Backend Development

Backend Development is the process of developing the business logic and
functionality of your tool.

As a backend developer, your responsibility is to write clean and scalable code
which allows the transfer of data between the web browser and database server as
per your application's description.

Usually, this involves working with databases to store data from users which is
then extracted from the database and used in other parts of the application.

### What You Need to Know to be a Backend Developer

<grid-1-x-2 :reversed="true" desc="Check out this video on how to get started as a backend developer" link="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Kv_k4ypj6o" button="Get Started Now!" img-Src="https://codecondo.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/09/back-end-developer.jpg"></grid-1-x-2>

## How do I get started with web development?

### Scrimba

<grid-1-x-2  desc="Scrimba is a next-generation platform for learning how to code. Scrimba's screencasts enable you to interact with the code directly in the player. This way, you'll have more fun and learn faster." img-Src="https://scrimba.com/static/art/castcover.png" button="Start Learning" link="https://scrimba.com"></grid-1-x-2>

### Frontend Web Developer Roadmap

<grid-1-x-2  :reversed="true" desc="A community-created roadmap for modern frontend web development." img-Src="/resources/web/frontend-roadmap.png" button="Check it out!" link="https://roadmap.sh/frontend"></grid-1-x-2>

### Backend Web Developer Roadmap

<grid-1-x-2 desc="A community-created roadmap for modern backend web development." img-Src="/resources/web/backend-roadmap.png" button="Check it out!" link="https://roadmap.sh/backend"></grid-1-x-2>

## HTML, CSS & JavaScript Cheat sheets!

<div class="scrolling-wrapper">
  <div class="scroll-child">
   <iframe src="https://web.stanford.edu/group/csp/cs21/htmlcheatsheet.pdf" style="width:550px;height:500px;"></iframe>
  </div>
  <div class="scroll-child">
    <iframe src="https://courses.cs.washington.edu/courses/cse154/16sp/cheat-sheets/css-cheat-sheet.pdf" style="width:580px;height:500px;"></iframe>
  </div>
  <div class="scroll-child">
   <iframe src="https://courses.cs.washington.edu/courses/cse154/16sp/cheat-sheets/javascript-cheat-sheet-v1.pdf" style="width:600px;height:500px;"></iframe>
  </div>
</div>

## What Web Development Tools Are There?

### Web Frameworks

A web framework is a tool that you could use as the skeleton for your
application. It's helpful to use web frameworks because often, they have
built-in features (such as user authentication capabilities) which you can use
for development thus saving you time and increasing productivity.

Furthermore, frameworks are helpful when building larger applications because
they are "scalable". This means you can easily implement features to your
application in a way that follows a pattern such that other portions of your
application are not impacted and your code is easily understandable if you want
to make changes in the future. Frameworks are available for both backend and
frontend development.

### Top 10 Frontend Libraries

<grid-1-x-2 :reversed="true" desc="Javascript frameworks are the way-to-go with frontend development. Checkout this list on the top 10 frameworks to get started with UI" link="https://medium.com/javarevisited/10-of-the-most-popular-javascript-frameworks-libraries-for-web-development-in-2019-a2c8cea68094" img-Src="https://miro.medium.com/max/3840/1*4cFhtuq6zRDqJ6p4s2pQ6g.jpeg" button="Check it out!"></grid-1-x-2>

### Backend Frameworks

<grid-1-x-2 desc="Here are a list of video tutorials you could use if you want to get started with a backend framework" link="https://dev.to/iamsaeeddev/5-free-tutorials-you-should-complete-to-master-the-back-end-3077" img-Src="https://kellton-revamp-prod.s3.amazonaws.com/s3fs-public/inline-images/Backend%20Frameworks-02.jpg" button="Check it out!"></grid-1-x-2>

### Web development tools you should know

When you start developing your web application, you will need an array of tools
to keep help your development agile and your code scalable. This includes using
version control (like Git) and deployment containers (like Docker).

<grid-1-x-2 :reversed="true" desc="Here are some essential tools you should definetly know before you start your next project!" link="https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/handy-web-development-toolkit/" img-Src="https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/content/images/size/w2000/2020/04/screely-1586183781361.png" button="Check it out!"></grid-1-x-2>

## Selected frameworks to help you get started!

### ReactJS

<grid-1-x-2 desc="ReactJS is a frontend library created by facebook to help create modern and responsive UIs. It's one of the most well-known frameworks out there!" button="Get started with ReactJS!" link="https://utmhacklab.tech/resources/react/" img-Src="https://miro.medium.com/max/900/1*EntHChgUyirgbZ9A3zTxkA.png"></grid-1-x-2>

### VueJS

<grid-1-x-2 :reversed="true" desc="VueJS is a frontend framework designed for building UIs and single-page applications. It is a highly-scalable framework and can be easily adopted for a plethora of use cases." link="https://utmhacklab.tech/resources/vue/" button="Get Started with VueJS!" img-Src="https://octref.gallerycdn.vsassets.io/extensions/octref/vetur/0.24.0/1583367754374/Microsoft.VisualStudio.Services.Icons.Default"></grid-1-x-2>

### NodeJS & ExpressJS

<grid-1-x-2 desc="NodeJS is what allows you to use Javascript for backend development. ExpressJS is a backend web framework built on NodeJS. These technologies easily integrate with frontend frameworks and allow developers to create full-stack applications using a single programming language." link="https://www.guru99.com/node-js-express.html" button="Let's get started!" img-Src="https://miro.medium.com/max/365/1*Jr3NFSKTfQWRUyjblBSKeg.png"></grid-1-x-2>

### Django

Django is a Python-based web framework well-known for its scalability as well as
its built-in components for authentication and data connections. Django is
becoming extremely popular due to python being the default language for most
Machine Learning developers.

<grid-1-x-2 :reversed="true" desc="If you would like to get started with django, here are step-by-step tutorials on building various types of applications" link="https://realpython.com/tutorials/django/" button="Get started with Django" img-Src="https://twilio-cms-prod.s3.amazonaws.com/original_images/django-dark.png"></grid-1-x-2>

## Web Content Accessibility Guide 2.0 (WCAG 2.0)

Your web application is something that everyone should be able to use. Often,
some of your users may require certain accesibility features on your web
application so that they may experience the full benefits of your application.

Many regions have requirements for web content accessibility as part of their
legislation (such as Ontario as part of the AODA). Luckily, the W3 Consortium
has published international guidelines on web content accessibility in what is
know as 'WCAG 2.0'

<grid-1-x-2 desc="The WCAG2.0 is fairly extensive and provides a very comprehensive set of guidelines. Get started now!" button="Learn more" img-Src="https://www.w3.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2018/09/wcag_blog-1.png" link="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/Understanding_WCAG"></grid-1-x-2>
